Add Sparkplug blog post (#553)
v8/v8.dev: src/blog/sparkplug.md

---
title: 'Sparkplug — A non-optimizing JavaScript compiler'
author: '[Leszek Swirski](https://twitter.com/leszekswirski) — maybe not the brightest spark, but at least the fastest one'
avatars:
  - leszek-swirski
date: 2021-05-27
tags:
  - JavaScript
extra_links:
  - href: https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Gloria+Hallelujah&display=swap
    rel: stylesheet

> description: 'In V8 v9.1 we''re improving V8 performance by 5-15% with Sparkplug: a new, non-optimizing JavaScript compiler.'

Reviewer: We use correct apostrophes instead, which incidentally also helps avoid escaping.

```suggestion
description: 'In V8 v9.1 we’re improving V8 performance by 5-15% with Sparkplug: a new, non-optimizing JavaScript compiler.'
```

Reviewer: (please also replace other occurences of `'` used as apostrophe in the blog post)

Author: Done

There are a couple of tricks that make the Sparkplug compiler fast. First of all, it cheats; the functions it compiles have already been compiled to bytecode, and the bytecode compiler has already done most of the hard work like variable resolution, figuring out if parentheses are actually arrow functions, desguaring destructuring statements, and so on. Sparkplug compiles from bytecode rather than from JavaScript source, and so doesn't have to worry about any of that.

The second trick is that Sparkplug doesn't generate any intermediate representation (IR) like most compilers do. Instead, Sparkplug compiles directly to machine code in a single linear pass over the bytecode, emitting code that matches the execution of that bytecode. In fact, the entire compiler is a [switch statement](https://source.chromium.org/chromium/chromium/src/+/main:v8/src/baseline/baseline-compiler.cc;l=465;drc=55cbb2ce3be503d9096688b72d5af0e40a9e598b) inside a [for loop](https://source.chromium.org/chromium/chromium/src/+/main:v8/src/baseline/baseline-compiler.cc;l=290;drc=9013bf7765d7febaa58224542782307fa952ac14), dispatching to fixed per-bytecode machine code generation functions.

> ``` cpp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```cpp
```

Sparkplug does a neat sleight-of-hand that simplifies most of these problems away, which is that it maintains "interpreter-compatible stack frames".

Let's rewind a bit. Stack frames are how code execution stores function state; whenever you call a new function, it creates a new stack frame for that function's local variables. A stack frame is defined by a frame pointer (marking its start) and a stack pointer (marking its end):

![A stack frame, with stack and frame pointers](/_svg/sparkplug/basic-frame.svg)

::: note
<!-- markdownlint-capture -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable no-inline-html -->
At this point, roughly half of you will be screaming, saying "this diagram doesn't make sense, stacks obviously grow in the opposite direction!". Fear not, I made a button for you: <button id="flipStacksButton">I think stacks grow upwards</button>
<script>
  const flipStacksButton = document.getElementById("flipStacksButton");
  let stacksAreFlipped;

>   if (localStorage['stacksAreFlipped'] !== undefined) {

Reviewer: Let's get rid of `localStorage` as discussed locally (to avoid polluting local storage for visitors forever).

Author: Done

    stacksAreFlipped = localStorage['stacksAreFlipped'] === "true";
  } else {
    // This is my genius way of guaranteeing that "roughly half of you" claim above.
    stacksAreFlipped = Math.random() > 0.5;
  }
  function updateStacks() {
    if (stacksAreFlipped) {
      document.body.classList.add('flipped');
      localStorage['stacksAreFlipped'] = true;

>       flipStacksButton.innerHTML = "I think stacks grow downwards";

Reviewer: Please use `textContent` instead, it's a bit safer :)

Author: Done
